---
title: "A summary of all things B"
date: 2007-05-03T23:02:00+00:00
publishDate: 2107-05-03T23:02:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: true

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

After badgering by a couple of old friends, it occurred to me that really I should get a couple of things down on electronic paper and out of my head so that I can just record them forever and move on in my head. And just a note to anyone who may read this, just because I may have chosen to share some of my thoughts and feelings, dont think that this means that this means a return of the Morgan chronicles.

So, lets summarise what exactly has happen in recent times in my life. Basically just before Easter the girlfriend moved down back home so that she could pursue her course of medical treatment. Which caused great arguments at the time, basically the argument went along the lines of she could get treatment in Nottingham without too much fuss and I feared if she returned home for any length of time then she wouldnt come back. Her argument consisted of dont be stupid, if you loved me you wouldnt have this argument with me. Which you know, I found very reassuring, being told that my point of view was stupid (ie. going to miss her).

So, Easter came and went, time went by. A couple of problems were encountered with adjusting to the whole distance thing. When I say problems, what I mean is, I was accused of ignoring her and not take taking an interest in her life (ie. it took more than 5 mins to return a text message when I was in the pub one night). The only way to get around supposedly ignoring her was to literally text every minute of every day. That in itself is personally quite annoying, having to give a running commentary of my life and asking her what she was doing every 5 minutes. Especially when despite all my questioning all I ever really got in response was one word answers. And so, I was then expected to give her a phone call every night of at least half an hour in length where I was supposed to provide stimulating conversation (enough for both of us I may add), which is a lot more easier said than done considering that you've already given her a commentary of your life all day.

On 30th April, ie Monday, I had final confirmation that we were infact not together. Which personally I was more than a little gutted by. Especially considering she had thought she had made it quite clear by saying 10 days previous that she "needed space". I took that to mean that she wanted more of her own life and not to feel guilty if she wasnt talking to me all day. What it actually meant was, we split up but I can still phone you randomly when I want a talk. What it really sounds like to me is "I dont want to be hated, and you've treated me so well I dont want to lose your support." Knowing history and a little bit of her head space it really sounds to me like "I still like you, but when I get horny there's an easy shag just around the corner."

It gave me one of the worst weeks of my life, basically wondering if I did or didnt have a girlfriend, if she was cheating on me, if I'd see her again, I just dont know. The week was randomly interrupted by text messages asking me how I was and phone calls bragging about how good her life was, or rather conversations where I asked her questions and gave her chances to talk. I'll tell you know, there wasnt one of these conversations where she actually found out how I was feeling, or what I'd done during the week. As proved by the fact that she only found out through a messenger conversation a week later that I loved her, missed her and couldnt wait to see her again; when I was treated to "You do know we're not together, right?"

It was a good moment.

Ah well. Ca la vie. But I've now had a week to think about it a bit, well I say week, its more like 2 really what with the week of not knowing. So how do I feel now?
The honest answer is pretty damn good actually. Liberated. If by some weird twist of fate she phoned me up tomorrow and asked for me back then I've got to say that I wouldnt want her back. And for several reasons.

Basically I was tired of having to deal with her medical problems. At the end of the day they are her problems and she has consistently done nothing but make them worse for herself. And any opinion, advice, comment (volunteered or questioned for) is wrong, to only turn around, ask someone else, be told the same thing, and think that the second person is an absolute god, whereas I got a 2 hour argument.

I was sick of having an argument at least twice a week.

I was sick of every argument we have resulting in her just saying well fine sod off then, and me having to fight for our relationship every time. Although I think there was some progress made recently because she stopped threatening to sleep with other men, but then does that mean that she already was?

I was sick of having to put all the effort in. I always had to take her out for dinner, do the flowers, do the romance, even do dinner and the housework.

I was sick of never going out, because every time I planned to go out, she suddenly didnt feel like it, causing great guilt if I ever went out and left her behind. And heaven forbid should I ever drink more than 3 pints so my thinking was anything more instant cos right there is another argument.

I was sick of being required to reply to a text message or phone call immediately at any time day or night (even when she worked nights). Whereas, my messages are replied to casually in anything between 5 minutes to 5 hours. Or not at all in some cases.

I was sick of having crap sex.

This is a multi­part answer:
­- touching of breasts or clit with hands was banned
­- going down on her was banned (because she could feel the saliva run everywhere and it wasnt a pleasant experience
­- there was no foreplay
­- there has only been one blowjob in over 9 months and that was actually before we were officially going out
­- she was absolutely silent during sex (except during climax when "oh baby" was just repeated)
­- after the first month it was amazingly difficult to see her naked
­- she'd initiate sex with a pull of the penis and expect me to do everything else from then on (because then I'm obviously in the mood)(and of course I want to do everything in sex all the time anyway and absolutely never under any circumstances lay back and just enjoy it)
­- she could only orgasm through sex
­- it took me 3 months to make her orgasm
­- I knew that before me at one point before me she had 6 men on the go at the same time. And frequently reminded me of how good one of them was, and how he said that if she ever left me he'd be there.
­- I knew that she obviously had a S&M/bondage fetish. She had many arguments over how I was never dominant enough with her. Yet then refused to actually tell me what I was doing wrong or what I should be doing, in true "if you dont know then I'm not going to tell you kind of way".
­- it feels good to be reminded of how good someone else is, and how much they get you, to then be told that you dont really do any of that.
­- when trying to be more domineering and try new positions, I was frequently told that to stop cos she felt silly or it hurt (she has problems with tearing, a result of her first boyfriend at 14), another constant reminder of her past
­- I was always afraid that she was thinking of her past and not the present.
­- to get her off I often had to talk dirty and talk my way through a fantasy of mine, something very revealing and difficult for me to do at the best of times let alone when in the act. Something that was never returned.
­ upon the purchase of new slinky underwear, I never saw it in a sexual sense

I was sick of being constantly reminded that "I dont do relationships"

I was sick of being repeatedly told that "I'm never going to get married", "I'm never going to have kids". Only to have randomly comments of "I could marry you right now" thrown in to confuse anything.

I was sick of being provoked into an argument, argue using logic and practical solutions to the problem. To only find that she turns into an emotionless shell of a person. I mean how are you supposed to conclude an argument if the one person shuts down and refuses to speak.

I was sick of the violence. Many times in one of these arguments, I'd then be punched around the face. The reason for this apparently is that it is the only way to make me step back and actually listen to what she was (or wasnt) saying. I once woke up in the morning having gone out drinking the previous night with extreme gland and neck pain. I thought that I must have caught some kind of bug of flu during the night. Upon telling her in the afternoon later that day I was told that it was from actually where she'd been strangling me and thrown me against the wall.

I was sick of not being able to talk to anyone, about anything to do with my relationship, to friends in Nottingham or in Norfolk. Because what happened between us should always be kept behind closed doors and no one should ever know that we were anything but perfect. What this actually led to was the breakdown of some of the friendships that were most precious to me in Nottingham last year. Not only that it meant that going out by myself was made even more difficult as I then had to face the interrogation team when I got home. A single mention of her name during the night would led to another argument and heaven forbid had actually talked to a female or even her housemate because that bring extra allegations of not loving her or fancying her housemate. Which, I'm sorry, just no.

I was sick of the suspicion. I was not in love with her housemate, nor (hand on heart now) did ever look in a sexual way, unless it was with disgust. Not only has she a fiancé of 3 years, she showers once a week, she's significantly overweight, doesnt brush her hair and amongst other things has personal and family issues that make most professional killers look sane. There is no way that I was/am ever going to go for her, sorry but no.

Basically it comes under that classic heading of friends to lovers is a very difficult transition. When she was a friend, a best friend she was fun, out going and just generally life of the party. As soon as things got more complicated and physical its almost as if she lost respect for me and it was no longer fun for her. Which is a shame really, what should have led to a many months of happiness led to a long running argument.
