---
title: "Coffee and croissants"
date: 2009-10-01T12:00:00+00:00
publishDate: 2009-10-01T12:00:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

This morning marked the start of what is dubbed as Fraser Fridays, basically the inter-group meeting of the Magnetic Resonance groups at UEA. And as I’m new it was decided for me that I should do a nice little presentation about what I did before Norwich.

So I dug out the old Masters presentation from 6 months ago, changed the date on the front and went for it whilst the hoard dug into the croissants and breakfast pastries I bought in (apparently another rule to get people there, the speakers brings cakes).

The presentation was pretty good itself despite Myles look of sheer puzzlement which is slightly off-putting but is apparently his default face. And it was all well and good til the biologist piped up. You basically just asked a load of questions along the lines of “Did you think about…. / Have you tried ….”

To which I basically replied yes you moron of course I did. Because of course I was there at the time and had a brain. And saw the problem arise in the first place. I just decided to omit it from the presentation cos I’m trying to get 10 months of work into a single piece of 15 minute standup, and little details like that I didn't think were necessarily relevant.

There were then a few comments about why I was wrong. Which I had to bite my tongue for, for it is not good form when on your 4th official week you start attacking a professor. Even if the plant hugger is talking out of his arse. But in hindsight, this is academia all over. Of course I believe I’m right. Everybody else can just f*** off and die, cos they are clearly wrong.
