---
title: "What's biting my goat"
date: 2011-02-24T22:01:00+00:00
publishDate: 2111-02-24T22:01:00+00:00
author: "Me"
draft: true

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

So really, the stem of my anger is coming from one major place at the moment.  don't get me wrong, I've got a lot of stuff on my mind at the moment.  Like I'm getting the occasional doubt over whether the move to Norwich is actually a good idea or not.  I mean, I've actually got a good couple of friends up here and when you look at the adult world then I'd say I've got more friends about the place than a lot of adults.  That and I know the city, so I suppose a part of me things, it's better the devil you know.  But then my rational thought process kicks in and says, yes but that devil you know has been by and large quite crap to you at times and really I've coasted through life here rather than really enjoyed it.

So really, I'm moving to a new-ish city and a new job with people I don't know and that scares me a bit from time to time.  The bonus is, I know that nothing is going to change around here and that I'll like me back for the odd-weekend.

What concerns me most though is that I'm beginning to think that I might miss Liz.  But I don't think that's actually it.  I think I'll actually miss the being in a relationship thing.  I say this because its essentially been 2 years now that I've had Liz about.  And thats just it.  I've had her around, we never really did the dating thing, we jumped from nothing to a very old-couple relationship in under 2 weeks.  From the start we've never spent more than one or two nights apart a fortnight aside from holidays such as Christmas.

And it still worries me that after all this time, I still don't / aren't sure if I love her.  I know that she is a good friend and that I enjoy her company but I don't think that there is much more than that to it than that.  After talking to Tony last night, it kinda dawned on me that me feeling like that doesn't make me weird and I'm not alone in it.  Perhaps, it's not fair on her but to that I say she seems to be having a good enough time.

But I'm very much aware that at the same time, because I'm aware that I don't love her anything like she loves me that I pander to were wishes an awful lot in an attempt to keep her happy and to hide my feelings.  But this has the downside that I know I'm not being true to myself and as a result resent her for it.  Stupid I know, but this is my nature of things, I bit my lip until teeth show on the other-side.  But in the same breath, how do you tell a girl that's completely devoted to you that you're not being yourself and aren't sure if you love her?

Well the answer there, the only one that I can come up with is to introduce distance into the relationship, allow distance, space, time, friends and everything else come in the way until such a point where she realizes that maybe I'm not worth keeping as a boyfriend.‚  And it concerns me that I can say that with such ease.

But then, what do I have that keeps me in this relationship aside from the friendliness and safety that comes with a relationship.

- She doesn't cook
- She doesn't clean
- She cant even tidy up after herself
- She cant remember where stuff is for all of the clutter
- She's argumentative and hot headed
- She can only turn up to events half an hour late
- She doesn't do her own washing anymore, or hanging of clothes after
- She'd rather get out of bed and sit in front of the TV than stay in bed with me
- Her complete laziness in every aspect of her life that includes doing anything

It's not the sex that:
- comes on average once a fortnight
- sees her just lie there
- is completely one way
- is never spontaneous
- feels forced
- is so "vanilla" for lack of a better word.  Missionary good for you? Good, cos thats where it starts and ends
- I cant even remember the last BJ
- sees my orgasms as so bland she rarely notices they're there, with the classic "we can keep going if you want"
- is matching underwear too much to ask for?
- is nice underwear (ie without poker-dots or poor taste joke on them, or have enough material to move a small yacht) too much to ask for?
- both of which I know she owns
- no man should ever hear, let alone frequently hear "excuse the stubble, I couldn't be bothered to shave today"
- can she be bothered to make an effort for, body grooming is nominal, underwear is a Primark lucky dip, initiation of activities is something to be desired and well I'd like some activity to be going my way

The best thing I've managed to say about <her> sex is at least she is consistent with it.  Some would say that consistence is the name of the game. However, when that standard is low and you just want a good screw, that simply is just not the case. I don't know.  I guess what I'm trying to say is this.  She does nothing around the house or in the relationship, and a lot of this would be forgivable for a mind-blowing orgasm or blow-job occasionally.
