---
title: "2023-08-25"
date: 2023-08-25T18:45:08-04:00
publishDate: 2023-09-25T12:00:00-04:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

The Bye family (possibly annual) retreat, that I decided to call it as of about 5 seconds ago is going astoundingly well. The search criteria was to have it within about an hour of the city and to have as little fuss as possible.

Therefore to find an almost inclusive hotel across the road from a supermarket, small water park and a small amusement park seemed like just the ticket.

But true to Murphy’s Law, the gods have smiled upon me trying to make a plan and a small amount of rain resulted in a tiny notice on the website of amusement and water parks not being open today. Hilarious! A water park that won’t open due to a light drizzle.

That’s the sort of confused logic that I could expect “everything is not that bad” England. But I thought the Canadians would be made of sturdier stuff.

Challenging to go walkabout with one child that would eternally prefer to be on my shoulders and another that despises the idea of being physically unattached from iPad with another less than a broadband connection. And that was before the rain, and the sub 14 degree weather.

I mean it’s ridiculous really. Where the hell has the summer been? It’s the last week of August and - like an idiot - I packed T-shirts and little else. Not monsoon gear, wind breakers nor down jackets.

Thank goodness I’m made of sturdier stuff and can accommodate a slight chill with some light jogging with a toddler on my shoulders.

But I do mean light. My formerly-wisdom-toothed gum still gives me a surprising amount of “you’re about to do something” every time I bend over to tie some shoe laces.

And if a slight pressure change from orientation is flaring the thing up, then I’m very hesitant to do any hardcore aerobic exercise.

But looking at the bright side, being unable to open my jaw very wide and then having it feel quickly exhausted is doing wonders for the weight lose journey.
