---
title: "Getting an openSUSE machine online"
date: 2012-01-29T12:00:00+00:00
publishDate: 2012-01-29T12:00:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: ["linux"]
categories: ["tech"]
---

This week I've been cloning machines, but each new machine has slightly different hardware, even if it's just a MAC address or serial number.

So, a quick disclaimer I'm using openSUSE 11.3 and so things will be slightly different for different versions of SUSE or different distros.

# Get online
SUSE unlike some of the more user friendly OS's doesn't go out of it's way to get you online. So we need to manually tell it what to do. First open a terminal and log in as a system admin:
```
su
```

Now view the network connections:
```
ifconfig -a
```

This should tell you what you've got, what's connected and what's trying to connect. Now remember the MAC address of the port you want to connect and open up YAST from the start menu (under Computer)

Open up Network Settings.

Delete the old connections, and set up the new ones. Generally, for most instances you'll just want to Edit the new connection and set it to acquire it's IP using DHCP, but if you're using a corporate network then you may need to give it a default gateway address as well.

Click Next, and Finish in YAST and allow it to write the new settings. Hopefully your network should now be up and running.

# Tidy up ports (ie changing ethX to ethY)
For some of my software it uses licenses based upon the MAC address of eth0, and obviously with nothing on eth0 it falls over a bit. For this reason I needed to change by eth2 to eth0.

So in a terminal as a super user
```
rcnetwork stop
cd /etc/udev/rules.d
```

This bit is definitely different on different versions of SUSE, so list your directory and change as appropiate. And if you dont use nano, use vi or kate
```
nano 70-persistent-net.rules
```

At the bottom of this file is a line starting with `SUBSYSTEM` and at the end of the line is something like
```
NAME = “ethX”
```

Simply change the `X` to whichever number you like, but remember you'll probably have to change the Network Settings in YAST again after this
```
rcnetwork start
```

Restart your PC, and then check with ifconfig if needs be.
