---
title: "Lab server setup - Ubuntu 12.4"
date: 2012-08-01T16:31:00+00:00
publishDate: 2012-08-01T16:31:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: ["linux", "server"]
categories: ["tech"]
---

With a recent change of machines in the lab, I thought that I should update the backup server according to reflect the new machines. However, upon inspection the backup server OS hard drive had died long ago; but then what do you expect when you use 8 year old battered PCs as a server.

This wasn't too much of a problem as the machine's RAID array was otherwise fine, it just hadn't been mounted in some time. And the lab machines all have their files safely on them still. So I thought I'd take the opportunity to bring new life to the server and update it. Something that had been on the list of things-to-do for a long time and I just hadn't got there.

# Server installation
I got a USB stick with the latest version of Ubuntu 12.4 LTS x64 and installed it onto the backup server on a fresh, new WD green drive. I used the standard desktop version and not the dedicated server or minimal install as frankly I cant be bothered with setting everything up from the command line and getting all the libraries, drivers, network connections, etc to work when the live disk just works.

After the fresh install I ran the usual
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

And waited for it to pull the updates from the Ubuntu servers. Followed by:
```
sudo apt-get install synaptic
```

This just downloads the *Synaptic* package manager, which oddly isn't included by default anymore by Ubuntu.
```
sudo apt-get install nfs-kernel-server nfs-client
```

All of the lab machines I've configured to use NFS shares to allow manipulation of files between them

# RAID array configuration
Finally, I installed `mdadm` (md (multiple device) administrator) which allows for the mounting and control of hard drives into RAID arrays without expensive hardware controllers
```
sudo apt-get install mdadm
```

Annoyingly, the `mdadm` install requires the package `sendmail`, which is used for email notifications if a RAID array dies, however the `sendmail` installer is useless. It takes over the terminal window and needs you to set up some configuration settings but will not allow you a cursor. To solve this press "Tab" and suddenly the cursor selects the OK box and you can continue.

With `mdadm` installed I could now mount the RAID array, using a similar method to that described before, initially using Ubuntu's Disk Utility program to gather which hard drives were allocated to which hardware address. My drives were located at `/dev/sdb` and `/dev/sdc`. So I could mount them using:
```bash
sudo mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=1 --force --raid-devices=2 /dev/sdb /dev/sdc
```

Which created a single mdadm device (`md0`)
- in a RAID 1 (`--level=1`)
- from 2 disks (`--raid-devices=2`).

Now the device had been created it was mounted to a folder (having to specify the drives file system (ext4)
```bash
sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/md0 /media/raid
```

# NFS mounting
As previously mentioned all the machines in the lab allow NFS sharing between them. So for each machine it was as easy as creating a new directory for each machine
```bash
mkdir /media/[machine to be added]
```

And then mounting the machine (make sure to configure firewalls appropriately)
```bash
mount [IP or DNS entry to machine]:/home /media/[machine to be added]
```

So something like
```bash
mount epr-PC1.department.uni.edu:/home /media/PC1
```

Running
```bash
df -h
```

Should now show that you have a NFS drive attached.

This is all very well and good, but all that we've done is mount the drive this time, but for a server in the event of power outage and reboot we want the drives to be automatically mounted. To do this we need to edit `/etc/fstab` and add a new line for each drive
```
[...]

epr-PC1.department.uni.edu:/home /media/raid/PC1   nfs   rw,sync,hard,intr   0   0
```

You can use different mount options if you like (look up man nfs), for example a backup server doesn't really need write permissions.

# Remote desktop
In Ubuntu's menu select, Desktop Sharing, and select Allow others to view your desktop and Allow other users to control your desktop

# Backup script
For the backing up scripts, see the (next article)[http://morganbye.com/tech/20120802/]
