---
title: "Destruction"
date: 2007-04-07T16:51:00+00:00
publishDate: 2007-04-07T16:51:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Dear Diary,

Today has thus far been one of those days where it was difficult to get out of bed and promptly wished I never had bothered really. Today after a very slow start, after a very long night where my sleep was interrupted many times by numerous twats coming in and out of the house, I attempted some work.

Very shortly afterwards the girlfriend came online. What with my status being online rather than my usual appear offline I thought that I had better make and effort to talk to her, rather than my usual tactic of just pretending like I'm not there. Truth is I hate talking to her online these days. Usually because I feel so crap after a conversation online with her.
Many reasons for this really. Partly because it now takes her over 2 minutes to give one word responses, regardless of the question. Even if I know she is doing nothing else at the time than talking to me. Partly because I feel about as appreciated talking to her online as something she might tread in. Having said that, now that she works at the stable she probably thinks more of sh!t than me, at least that pile of sh!t is treated to some one on one time everyday without interruption.

Well today she had to leave me to in fact go move some horse sh*t about, how terribly appropriate really. And she didn't even say goodbye.

But the thing about the conversation as of late that annoys me most of all. She's been planning a trip to Nottingham, and yet I seem to be the last one to find out. I seem to only find things out via through select friends here in Nottingham. Work of course takes presidency over me, she could never come up on a weekend to see me, and I cant go down to see her because of work.
