---
title: "Over, now it is"
date: 2007-04-07T21:20:00+00:00
publishDate: 2007-04-07T21:20:00+00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

My star sign told me today:
> "Someone's power play could be defining your current circumstances, and there is likely more going on than meets your eye. But your motivations, too, are more complicated than they seem. A bit of self­ control can help, but this is not an excuse for avoidance. Say what's on your mind, but do it in a way that has lasting value rather than just being melodramatic."

So today I made my feelings more apparent than normal. To which I was told *"you do realise we're not together"*. I replied with *"I thought we were on a space thing, but still together"*. How sadly mistaken I was. Turns out all the hardship of the last week, the emotional rollercoaster of it all, was sadly for nothing.

All week I've gone about thinking that I'll have a girl back home to look forward to. Seems that was all a bit too much to wish for. But now it does mean one thing. It does mean that my plans for the summer have suddenly become a lot less complicated. Basically now I know my options are stay in Norfolk. Which means I'll probably work most of the summer to put off incredible boredom.

And annoyingly, I've once again seemed to only prove myself right, as seemingly I always do. Once again, Morgan has had another relationship that falls at the 9 month mark. The 9 month mark comes back to haunt me again, so what's that 5 girls now? Which proves but one thing to me. Apparently I'm a very interesting person until you actually know me. Either that or there is a whole lot of crazy under here, failing that maybe the crazy is only on the outside and people are always disappointed when they see the inside.

I think the later is more appropriate for this one really.
