---
title: "Norfolk, a new beginning"
date: 2009-07-23T15:51:00-00:00
publishDate: 2009-07-23T15:51:00-00:00
lastmod: 2009-09-02T15:52:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Well I’ve got to say, it has certainly been an exciting couple of days.  Since I last wrote I’ve been to Denmark and back for Doug’s wedding and I’ve packed up all my belongings and have moved out of Nottingham after a graduating.  Tomorrow brings a trip to Manchester on the train so that I can go on holiday with Liz and her family to Cornwall for the week.

So yes, Denmark was an odd experience indeed.  Once I had got over the crap-ness that was the magic of RyanAir; which essential came across as a bunch of Irish pikeys that are willing to grab any penny you may have on you at any opportunity.  Although if you can tell me why a flight going between Stansted and Bilund wont accept Sterling or Kroner and want you to pay for refreshments in Euros, then you are obviously better at business than myself.  Once in Denmark and we actually got the car to start (taking 10 minutes, as you need to have your foot on the clutch and the brake before you can turn the key) we set off to the wedding.  Unfortunately, the 3 junctions or about 8 miles of motorway took us 3 and a 1/2 hours due to a lorry ploughing across the central reservation causing mayhem and 7 1/2 mile tailbacks.  Apparently Danish radio was telling everyone to avoid the road as the accident had happened about 8 hours earlier and they were in the repair process.  However, no one in our car spoke any more Danish than beer, chicken, cheese, ham, sandwich (everything you really need in a foreign country).

The wedding was a good laugh with much boozing, dancing, swimming in a seriously cold sea, more booze, danish food, booze, a wedding, bouncy castle, dodge the rain.  You know, everything you want from a wedding.  The reception was very silly as me, Amy and Lady E played the “try and get as much crap as possible into everybody else’s drink while they arent paying attention” game which had the others on the table looking at us in disgust but we were enjoying ourselves.  We were also introduced to the Danish traditions that if everybody scratchs their plate the bride and groom have to get up on their chairs and kiss for as long as the scratchs go on; and secondly if the groom leaves the room all the men in the room have to go kiss the bride before he gets back and vica versa for the bride.

A quick RyanAir flight back (with eternal interuptions to see if I wanted refreshments, perfumes, cosmetics, bus tickets to London, landing passes, raffle tickets, lottery tickets and charity tickets) and then a blast North got us back to Nottingham.

2 days went by of silly, supposed packing.  Wednesday was graduation day, the parents turned up with a laughably huge van for all my stuff, most of which was packed in an hour.  We then walked over to the Chemistry lunch to have a lavish meal that obviously was made for with my tution fees but heyho.  Lady E was suitably stressed when the award ceremony ran late, which my father just giggled at.  But we got to graduation in time and I had my 6 seconds of fame on stage.  So now officially and forever I shall be a Master of Science.  Which is not bad at all.

An emotionally goodbye was said to Lady E as it dawned on me just how much I’d miss her in the time to come.  But things in life are forever changing, and we like everything have to adapt.

I dont know, not much feeling the blogging vibe today anymore, so I shall sign off for now.  And maybe add another post later.


----
This page previously appeared on morganbye.net[^1][^2][^3]

[^1:] [http://morganbye.net/norfolk-a-new-beginning](http://morganbye.net/norfolk-a-new-beginning)
[^2:] [http://morganbye.net/2009/07/norfolk-a-new-beginning)](http://morganbye.net/2009/07/norfolk-a-new-beginning)
[^3:] [http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=15](http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=15)
