---
title: "Debt, bills, and frightening life speed"
date: 2009-09-18T08:39:00-00:00
publishDate: 2009-09-18T08:39:00-00:00
lastmod: 2009-09-18T08:40:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

It's been a funny old week this week.  Not only am I disturbed by how quickly it seems to have disappeared, but just how quickly life seems to be racing past as a whole at the moment.  If I'm not careful I'm going to blink and I'll be 40 before I even knew what happened.

So, I've currently got an incapacitated girl friend at the moment.  In her wiseness just as she was about to drive down here from Manchester, she realized that she'd forgotten the satnav and went back into the house to get it.  However, the dog being over excitable and disliking people running in and out again had other ideas.  So Lady E, satnav in hand, coming down the stairs has the dog run down the stairs and take her legs out from under her.  Needless to say, the resulting fall down the stairs has left her with sever bruising and a broken tail bone.  Which, having now inspected the injuries myself just looks like I'm into some really kinky sex.  So, the drive down here did not happen, what with the inability to really sit or walk, so what with stubbornness kicking in she got the train late last night.  And she's still determined to go to the job interview in Cambridge later today, the good news the interview is at Addenbrooks hospital if things go wrong.

So that's Lady E breaking herself. Again. Tonight may or may not be the house warming party, mainly because the invitations went out quite late and there seems to be an awful lot of other stuff going on at the moment.  Which I suspect will mean that either no one will turn up or twenty people will turn up.  But I don't care terribly either way, yes I'd like to be sociable but at the moment I'd settle for a drink.  Any drink.  Even if it's only with JC and E.

I think that it's only a problem that is only compounded my work at the moment.  Yes, I'm getting home at 430 at the moment, but I get home shattered and about ready for bed (something that would be very, very bad for my body clock).  And it's odd at work at the moment.  I still don't really have a lot to do, but I think I've just accepted now that most of the group, especially the boss are going to be absent a lot of the time.  Meaning that the onus is really on me to do whatever work I feel like.  So this week I've kept myself busy my first teaching myself basic quantum physics and writing it up as I go, I figure doing so will make my thesis significantly easier to write if I understand it and/or have stuff pre-written for large scale copying and pasting.  I figure inevitably the boss will take an interest in me and at that point I better be prepared with something, cos I assume that he wont have been paying me for 6 weeks to sit on my arse (completely).  But through the use of google calendars and sites this week I've created the group a little intranet with message board and most impressive a booking system for the machines.

Only problem with having now played with calendars and integration with outlook/exchange I'd quite like the iPhone to be doing the same.  And as we speak I think JC is investigating setting up a joint house calendar.  A bit like that O2 fridge gadget thing, without all the unnecessary money being spent, and it all updating over the air using the iPhone push functions.  So todays task will be to play with google sync to see if I can integrate the UEA exchange server, my various emails and calendars into one sync to the iPhone.  Then pray the phone is ever stolen.


----
This page previously appeared on morganbye.net[^1][^2][^3]

[^1:] [http://morganbye.net/debt-bills-and-frightening-life-speed](http://morganbye.net/debt-bills-and-frightening-life-speed)
[^2:] [http://morganbye.net/2009/09/debt-bills-and-frightening-life-speed)](http://morganbye.net/2009/09/debt-bills-and-frightening-life-speed)
[^3:] [http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=33](http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=33)
