---
title: "Moving on"
date: 2009-08-03T15:55:00-00:00
publishDate: 2009-08-03T15:55:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Well today after my return from the land of Lady E, I was awoken early to a busy day.  After collecting my things together and having a quick breakfast it was a case of jumping in the car that I practically had to book off of my brother and heading 60 miles down the road to Norwich.

Not to fear, found some Eurphoria to listen to, put the air con on, and with plenty of time it was a very relaxing drive.  After parking the car up at the house I walked up the hill to the letting agent.  Got the contract and pleasantries out of the way and we headed back down the hill to the house, and an awaiting JC.

After a seemingly endless walk around the house going through the inventory, inspecting the carpet, tiles, kitchen, even examining the number of picture frame hooks on the walls in the hall or heaven's sake.  But after that a pleasant trip to UEA was had, which was great because the whole trip took less than 15 minutes.

An hour sent in the company of bureaucrats was enough to remind me why I dislike them, but I have a job now for the 6 weeks over the summer at £7/hour and 37 hours a week.  Which is great.  Even if they wont pay me in August, but instead will pay we double in October instead; nice I'm being paid, crap for my finances and paying the bills.

So, being done a bit earlier with my office types earlier than JC was, I got myself back to the car park, lay across the bonnet in the summer sun.  Put a bit of chill out on and checked the news on the old iPhone.  But further good news came when despite it being the middle of rush hour we managed to get back home in under 14 minutes.  Measurement of rooms, discussion of bills, and a few laughs came back at the house.   Then we realised that it was fast approaching 6 o'clock and that we'd better head on home.

So, I'm positive about the forthcoming move to Norwich.  I have a nice flat that is huge for a reasonable price.  I have a good housemate.  And I have a job, that is going to be reasonably paid.  So, now to sort the whole thing with Lady E and it'll all be great.  That sad I've only just got off the phone with her, and we managed to quite happily chat away for over an hour and for it to be not weird or forced.  So, come on life. I'm ready for ya.


----
This page previously appeared on morganbye.net[^1][^2][^3]

[^1:] [http://morganbye.net/moving-on](http://morganbye.net/moving-on)
[^2:] [http://morganbye.net/2009/08/moving-on)](http://morganbye.net/2009/08/moving-on)
[^3:] [http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=21](http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=21)
