---
title: "Just generally in sickness"
date: 2009-10-20T13:37:00-00:00
publishDate: 2009-10-20T13:37:00-00:00
lastmod: 2009-10-20T14:00:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Well if I were married this would certainly not be one of those "in health" times.  This would be just an "in sickness".  One of those really annoying ones that have been lingering on the brink of proper illness for the last 2 weeks, but wouldn't really be arsed to get the motivation to do it properly.

This was even in the face of my sheer stupidity.  I mean I go to a wedding the weekend before last and drink to excess, that only gave me a 48 hour hangover and strange bouts of dizziness. Then on Thursday, despite my better judgement and well, common sense I thought I night of jazz would be a good idea.  This actually ended up in staying past closing time, but by that point there was no sense in stopping drinking.

After trying to stop for food 3 times, apparently we were just cursed and every take away we came in eye-sight of was to immediately close, we got back to Rich's flat.

*Sorry about this FIRE ALARM!!!*

Anyway, at Rich's we thought tequila sunrises would be a good idea, along with drunken Soul Caliber (which only proves that Yoshimitsu is kick ass, and I remember far too much about computer games, like all of his moves from Tekken 1).  Anyway, we lacked any orange juice or grenadine for the sunrise.  Thus we concluded that Cointreu, the orange liquor was obviously the way forward.

This only resulting in a Star Wars session, that ended at 2am when I remembered that I needed to sleep for the presentation that I had at 9, and there was an hour walk home in between where I was and sleep.

Anywho.  No drunkeness was not sufficient.  Instead, it seems I was beaten my ikea furniture.  On the weekend I had the ~~dis~~ pleasure of helping lady E move in.  So I constructed 2 wardrobes, a bed, chest of drawers, 2 bedside tables, set of shelves, dining table, dining chairs, yarda-yarda.... And as the blisters from screwdrivers fade all I'm left with is more sickness.

I only pray that this bloody stuff doesn't haunt me like freshers flu from first year that haunted me for the best part of 4 months.  Cos I don't think I can hack being slightly sick til January again.


----
This page previously appeared on morganbye.net[^1][^2][^3]

[^1:] [http://morganbye.net/just-generally-in-sickness](http://morganbye.net/just-generally-in-sickness)
[^2:] [http://morganbye.net/2009/10/just-generally-in-sickness)](http://morganbye.net/2009/10/just-generally-in-sickness)
[^3:] [http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=74](http://morganbye.net/blog/?p=74)
