---
title: "Blog introduction (2013)"
date: 2013-10-07T12:00:00-00:00
publishDate: 2013-10-07T12:00:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Hello and welcome to my new blog. Some may remember my original blog  that was hosted for many years on a certain social networking site, through some what I’m sure were some rather self-loathing and hormonal teenage years.  Unfortunately, it was lost to the great nothing-ness in cyberspace as a result of an argument with a particularly crazy girlfriend.  Sometime later I tried to return to said social networking site and found an horrendous fallen standard;  to a level where everything was in pastel  colours and aimed at telling the world what band you thought was hot.

Alas, it saddens me somewhat as I’m sure there must have been a few  diamonds in the rough hidden in there. A few gems that I could have  liked to remember 6th form by. And then for whatever reason, I haven't  really kept any record throughout university of my thoughts. Which isn't  to say I didn't have them.  What it came down to was that I took a ridiculous university course that gave me very little time to myself.  Balancing that with a social life and a girlfriend, it meant that I never had the time to sit down and express myself.  Or when I did I was so knackered I preferred rather to sink into a sofa and let my brain recover.

Nevertheless, a new blog is here. A new blog dedicated to my  post-university life. Which as it turns out has actually taken me back to university for some more pain and suffering as I chose to do a PhD.  So expect my thoughts and musings on current affairs and the occasional bitching about life.  And of course continued bitching about university life, even if it is a different university.
