---
title: "2023-08-27"
date: 2023-08-27T08:33:08-04:00
publishDate: 2023-10-27T12:00:00-04:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

Looking at this it looks like I failed to write anything yesterday - which ironically I thought about a lot yesterday but didn’t act upon because I had assumed that I had already written it in the morning. Which means that with two failures in the first two weeks that makes the whole thing rather more optional than I had initially desired.

But a long weekend is as close as I get to proper vacations these days so perhaps I should cut myself a break. Even the nightmare-fuelled Duolingo owl allows for you to save a streak occasionally to allow you to not fall off the streak wagon for the sake of life happening from time to time.

In this particular case I have to say that it has been a long couple of days. Certainly nothing in comparison to the start of August when we had some unexpected house guests. But long days with the kids outside of their natural environments is hard.

With the little one, it’s always incredibly hard to find a nap venue and to get him to sleep for as long as he needs. Yesterday, he slept for 40 minutes and then screamed directly into my face for the remaining 1h20 that he’d normally be asleep. Amazing!

The real challenge however is with the big guy. He just doesn’t listen. Or remember. Anything. Yesterday he thought it would be a good idea to start diving into a Jacuzzi. You know with ceramic edges just below the surface for people to sit on. His mother said not to, I shouted at him to listen to his mother and not to. He immediately dives in and misses a skull injury by a cm or two.

It’s just so exhausting. How are you supposed to have any fun with a kid if you’re going to spend half the day in a time out?

I genuinely don’t know how many times this week I’ve answered
“What is an hour?”

Or had to correct a version of
“Montreal is a country”
“What country is this?”

I’m genuinely getting to the point of thinking that dog training with a clicker and treats would be more effective.

It’s getting harder too, when I can see the personality of the two year old coming in and being sharper. The two year old has worked out to reliably stop at intersections and look for traffic. The seven year old has been nearly taken out by a Porsche and a 7 ton truck this weekend alone.
