---
title: "2023-09-03"
date: 2023-09-03T18:45:08-04:00
publishDate: 2023-10-03T12:00:00-04:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

It’s before six on a Sunday morning and as I look out of the window I can see the sky start to slowly fade and lose the only black in favour of a grey/blue hue.

Why am I awake? Well, because pet ownership is not all it’s cracked up to be. The silly thing awoke me with some panicked crying and upon inspection it looks like she shat, spread it everywhere and then tried to eat the evidence. As you might image the sight and the smell was really quite something. I wouldn’t have minded so much if she hadn’t been let out of the cage only an hour earlier to then run, hide and crap on a bathroom carpet.

I’m not going to lie. I don’t see it. Maybe pet ownership isn’t a thing for me. But as I keep saying to myself, fatherhood of tiny humans took me 9 months to come around to.

Meanwhile my legs are a little stiff this morning. Which is certainly better than cramping. But I’m pretty concerned about race day. I am now only 3 weeks away from race day and I realized thanks to life and some wisdom teeth complications I haven’t actually done and outside run for five weeks.

Last night I did my usual 10k loop of the mountain but extended it a bit to avoid the terribly cambered sidewalks that have previously been the source of many blisters and knee tendon delicateness. A total of 11k then, pretty much at as close as I can get to race pace (or as much as my heart rate would allow). For an eventual 7:00 pace - and boy did I feel it. Not great. There was no way I could have kept that pace for much longer, let alone another 10k.

That pacing would get me around in around 2h30, which isn’t terrible, but it’s enough to motivate me to get up in the mornings and do some training before work.
