---
title: "2023-09-20"
date: 2023-09-20T07:42:00-04:00
publishDate: 2023-10-20T12:00:00-04:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

I’m not sure if I’m actually any good at this whole journaling thing. I’ve been doing the attempted daily thing for about a month now and I’m not entirely sure what my hit rate was like. It was okay. But it was certainly far from the daily target I would’ve liked. But in the words of Meatloaf “two outta three ain’t bad”.

I think crucially it’s been enough for me to cross the inertia threshold and for it actually feel like a new habit. If I get to the end of the day and I haven’t done it yet then I feel like I’m looking for it. And that is unusual. Few things have ever gotten that far. The last notable thing that I felt my body looking for was lifting some weights. But just recently with life commitments and a focus on getting myself ready for the run, I’ve barely touched the weights and the yearning disappeared disturbingly fast. But I’m sure it will come back. It always has in the past.

However, perhaps I’m looking at all of this wrong. Maybe journaling shouldn’t be objective based. Perhaps this should be one of those things I do in life just for the sake of doing it.

Ironically, I found myself giving nearly identical advice to one of our ambitious, junior developers yesterday. I was there telling him that he needs to learn to enjoy the process and not be so focused on the results. After all, the process, the journey is how we spend our lives. For instance, with the supermarket project I spent nearly a year of my life associated with it. But when it’s all said and done, the team and I spent only an hour reminiscing about a job well done before we got back to it on the next thing.

Why is it so much harder to implement advice in our own lives?
