---
title: "20240331"
date: 2024-03-31T21:50:00-05:00
publishDate: 2024-04-30T12:00:00-00:00
author: "Morgan"
draft: false

tags: []
categories: ["blog"]
---

It's Sunday night and I sit on the boy's bedroom floor to write this evening. It's a long weekend thanks to Easter so it's day three with the family and the cracks are well and truly starting to show. And that's before we get through Monday with no school or daycare.

I'm going to learn from today though. Whilst the day didn't start out so bad, I've been pretty miserable for most of the day. Which is odd. Well odd isn't the word. As I sit here now, it's mostly frustration.

Today I woke up early and spent a bit of time baking. It's odd how every now and then there's a cultural touchstone that just hits a part of your brain and then suddenly you're fixated on a thing. This week it has been hot cross buns. We even went to a bakery yesterday in the Catholic part of the city and they looked at me like I was stupid. Clearly hot cross buns are a very British thing and not a generic European easter thing.

Yesterday too, on paper had all the makings of a good family day out. We went to a sugar shake outside the city, had a tractor ride around the orchid, ate some fresh maple syrup poured over ice, and spent a good amount of time on playgrounds.

Friday similarly, involved a nice trip out to Atwater market, buying some goodies for the family and then our first walk of the year along the canal in the sun. Friday night, we even had a babysitter and went out for the night, which involved smashing things in a rage room, before a lovely dinner.

As a highlight reel, it looks like it was a great night out.

But just as with social media, the cropped, and contrast adjusted version of things versus the reality were quite different.

The trip to the market was a struggle. The walk along the canal involved coughing fits to the point of vomiting and then a refusal to walk - meaning I got to carry a 15 kilo sack of potatoes two and a half km. The entire second half accompanied to the hysterical crying of a toddler not wanting to face into the wind.

The night out was with another couple, that in real time, you could watch descend into an argument. Nothing serious, just another round of the greatest hits. The high maintenance partner being annoyed that not enough effort was made for the birthday - even though a lot of effort had been made. It just wasn't the right effort.

As you can imagine, the dinner got more and more awkward as the night went on. The food itself was surprisingly poor, despite being a very expensive restaurant, and yet somehow I still managed to over-eat to the point of it being painful when I stood up to leave the table.

The sugar shack, involved the same couple from the night before, who's argument had evolved to a full on cold war by the next day. The only thing colder than the looks between them was on my own wife, or perhaps the frigid Artic wind that added a completely unreasonable windchill to the whole afternoon.

Today, the baking was an attempt to somewhat eat my feelings - despite me currently having a record breaking self-loathing for my body weight having crept up AGAIN.

Unfortunately the hot cross buns came out almost inedible.

At a certain point in the afternoon, I was in such a miserable mood I needed to go out. The good lady wife and naught but grunted at me all day, the kids were starting to go stir crazy.

What I wanted to do was run my guts out until my lungs burned.

It was clear however that disappearing and leaving the kids in the company of their mother was not going to be a recipe for success, so I pulled out the usual gear to take the little one with me on a bit of a hike. Through him in the trailer, he'll fall asleep, and I'll get a few kilometres in my legs whilst clearing my head.

Peculiarly, she decided she wanted to join, which then entails taking the big guy with us to.

In principle a whole family walk. The sort of thing that echoes my own childhood where every Sunday would comprise of long walks along the coast. But unlike my childhood, where the walks were a good time to chat, to talk and to bond closer. This was more of a death march. No one really talking to each other. Sure, there was that one guy that talked to himself the entire time - but everybody tried to ignore. There was that other guy that was increasingly coughing more and more as his lungs tried to fight against disease. And then there was me, just trying to silently get through the ordeal.

I don't know, it's been increasingly clear just recently that we're just not on the same page - and I'm finding it harder and harder to cross the gap to where she is. I feel like my efforts are unrewarded. Increasingly snubbed even. It breeds resentment. 

Increasingly I find it harder and harder to even respect the person when I don't understand the behaviours.

And I think this is my root problem of this weekend.

Her therapist recommended a book regarding parenting. The link was sent to me without context, so I went to Amazon to read the blurb and a few reviews. The blurb sounded a bit too "woo" for my personal tastes - pop science tailored to an audience of *ladies who lunch*.

But you know what, I'm not a professional in mental health, so if a NY Times best seller, with more than a million sales is recommended to me, you know what, I'm sure I can learn something. So I go ahead and click the purchase button, with it arriving the next day.

Now I'm definitely not the fastest reader, but I read the whole thing in around 4 hours. My body clock kicked me out of bed on Saturday morning, and so I finished the thing. Yes, the writing style was a bit too *fluffy* for my taste - and there was a real lack of science in a book written by an MD and a PhD.

Surprisingly for me, there really wasn't much new in the book. But then I've read a lot of leadership and business management books - and it's quite surprising just how much there is between that domain and parenting. So a lot of the concepts that they were trying to get across, I've previously seen in different contexts, and I didn't need the extended metaphors or "*I met this one mother, let's call her Jill...*" stories that they were using to hammer the point home.

The point is this. That book has sat in our home for nearly a week. I've read it cover-to-cover, and it wasn't even intentioned for me, just on the off-chance that it might have some good insights. She hasn't touched it. And you know what, she could actually get some useful pointers out of the thing.

This is my frustration this week. She has only one strategy. She talks to the kids like they are students in her lab. Twenty somethings with mostly complete pre-frontal cortexes. Self control, foresight and planning abilities. Our boys are dumb chimpanzees that still do the thing right in front of them because it feels good now. Forget two marshmallows later. Eat the marshmallow now, and complain that there aren't any more.

The more she shouts at them, the more they retreat, the more they tune her out and ignore her, the more she becomes enraged, the more she disconnects.

I know that not everyone is a natural born parent - it isn't for everyone - and that's okay. But if that's going to be the case, don't be pissed off at the kids because they didn't make the effort.

I see this too with the videocalls with the grandmother. The big guy is always asked if he wants to talk to grandmother, and he replies with a "No" - as you might expect from a boy of seven. And despite, all of the lectures he usually receives about consent and how "No means no" whenever he's playing with other kids, when he says "no" here, he still has to do it anyway. Only to be immediately scolded for not holding the camera correctly, or guilted with a "Why don't you want to talk to me?"

Well how about you make it fun for him? Why don't you make the effort such that he wants to talk to you?

I'm just getting so tired.

Tired of trying.

Tired of keeping it together.

Tired of playing the peacemaker.

Tired of sharing my home with someone that I'm increasingly coming to view as a stranger.

There was a moment this weekend, and I forget the context, probably posing for a photograph or similar and there was a squirm, like I didn't want to be touching.

This is the fifth weekend now with kids in various degrees of sickness. But I need a night where I'm not getting up at least four times, or getting smothered by them in the night.

Last night, the big guy came into our bed around two because of "bad dreams" - yeah right. He needed to pee and decided he likes our bed better. The little guy had a coughing fit around four and joined us. At a quarter past four, I gave up sleeping in my own. Reduced to a slither on the outside, with knees in my kidneys and hands in my face, I went and slept for the last few uninterrupted hours before dawn in the boys' room.

Tomorrow I need to do something. Something different. I can't be sitting at home, slow going crazy as the boys have nothing to do with their energy.

I'm thinking I get the bikes out and we go ride. I don't know where just yet, or if I can reasonably take both of them. But you know, it's got to be better than staying here and slowly resenting her for not waking up and not doing anything either.

I hate that I have to put so much energy into this.

But if I don't... I was going to say who else, but in this instance, I think it's more like I don't know what will happen. More shouting. More anger. More intolerance for the kids just being themselves.

I just don't know how to balance it. If I protect the kids. If I protect *her* from the kids. Am I "fixing" anything? Or am I just driving a wedge further into the gap?